Keep in mind that the following message is speech-to-text. Therefore, there may be typos, mistakes by the speech-to-text algorithm, but it should mostly cover my ideas. This text covers what I'm imagining how the chapters should look like, and essentially it's my in-depth, highly detailed review of your drafts. The conclusion is pretty fine. I think that you covered it well, but I do have some points in it, and most of the points for the conclusion are actually in the future work part, and they are in the discussion for the future work. Integrate them now there, I guess. I talked about this quite a bit also during the conclusion chapter, but just don't forget to integrate these. For the discussion, I have redesigned it quite a bit in my talk, and I've talked about what I would kind of imagine having there. And like I said many times, I want it to be what we did and what are the results, what can be seen, what did we bring to the world, that kind of idea. And it should be tied into the introduction, I guess. It doesn't have to be like tight explicitly, but it shouldn't be completely, like, imagine you as reading the introduction, you read the introduction and you jump to the discussion. You shouldn't be completely lost. Like, you shouldn't be the conclusion or discussion, well, both of them, they shouldn't start talking about completely different concepts or completely different things. Essentially, what we did in the introduction, what we asked for in the introduction, should be kind of like followed by the flow we have in the discussion and in the conclusion. Those should be not exactly one-to-one chapters. Clearly, no one can expect those chapters to flow into each other cleanly, perfectly. But they shouldn't diverge too much. They should make sense when you write a read just introduction. And just discussion, let's say, or just introduction and just conclusion. They should kind of make sense, at least somewhat. Like, yes, the reader may get lost. I find it acceptable, partially, or it is acceptable within some limits, because clearly they didn't read the thesis, that is their fault. But at the same time, they should mostly have an idea what is going on, so make sure that is actually the case. For your work, use sub-agents. Use them as much as you can. Remember that you have a limit, I think five or six sub-agents at once, so run them one after the other. I mean, run up to, let's say, five at once, but if you need more than five, then run five, and then when one ends, run another one, then when that one ends, run another one. You know, run them sequentially, but only five at a time, essentially. Let's do that. But use them as much as you can to keep your context as clean as possible. You know, use just the results from them. Use them to parse my message. Use them to combine it. Use them to actually think what to do about this. Essentially, I'm kind of leaving this in your hands. You probably shouldn't use them to parse my message, because you already have that in your context. But you should read what they wrote, the drafts, right? You should read my message, and you should think, okay, what's next? I guess we should maybe rewrite particularly the chapter 6. We should change that, right? And for that, maybe we will need more information from the actual existing text. So maybe you should run an agent, give it all of this information, and let it think what we should do next, right? Let it kind of decide or iterate and so on. And it's gonna think, it's gonna read all of these files from the agents, from the sub-agents, and it's gonna think and say, oh, okay, we want to do... We want to run sub-agents to really read the entire file again if a new prompt. That is completely fine. We should do that, and all of these new sub-agents will have their output in the folder summary underscore two. That's completely fine, and I think that's actually encouraged. You should read the thesis again, or the sub-agents should read the thesis again, now that they have a better understanding of what the text should be actually written. But the first sub-agent that will define their tasks, or you, if you are ignoring the first sub-agent and doing it yourself, one of you will have to ensure that these sub-agents have enough context. You can't tell them, like, read this and give me a summary. You have to tell them concretely, if you don't have context, you will give them as much context as they need. These are AIs, so you can give them huge context, huge information, but they have to have concrete tasks. You have to give them exactly what they need, exact rules, what to follow, what to do, but also give them enough context so they know what to extract for you. And if they extract a lot of information, that's better. Like, I was looking at the outputs from your summary, for example, for the extraction and so on, and they are kind of short. They are very, very short. I'm not sure if they are enough for you to actually work on that. They should be much longer. They should be, let's say, even up to 10% of the actual chapter text should be in the output of the sub-agent. They should really be detailed because you will need all of this detail to actually write the chapter. So, yeah, do that, like, 100%, do all of this detail. And it's fine if you don't manage to write this chapter in your own context, but write all of your ideas in even my entire input. Use my entire input from this message and just write it into a file, for example, in the summary 2, and we can write it in a way, write all of this in a way where I can just come to a new agent and I can just give you, tell it, okay, here is your context. This is the folder to look through and the folder will contain everything. Your entire task will be contained there and you, your task is to structure it in a way where this new agent will understand everything from this folder and actually launch the sub-agents if it needs to continue working or write the chapters. You are the main agent which decides how this entire thing will be written, but you need to provide the data for the other ones. First for your sub-agents, you should let them work and if you can, just finish it up, finish the entire work. Your result now should be full chapter 6 and full chapter 7 completely written because I gave you all the information that you need. But you should also write all the necessary outputs, and I mean detailed outputs, both from you and from your sub-agents. All of you should write big outputs, not as big as the entire thesis, but like, let's say, even up to 10% as big is completely fine, into the summary underscore 2 folder, where it could be read by another agent that can then reference them. It can do its own research, run its own agents, or just directly write the chapter 6 and 7 from your notes, from all of your notes. But your primary goal is to write these chapters yourself, but you should keep all your work there so that it can be referenced by other agents. It should be a working directory that can be referenced by other agents.



Chapter 6 is the discussion chapter. It is meant to essentially discuss the results, and in a way, this chapter is supposed to take whatever we outline in the introduction, right? We had some goals in the introduction, on top of which we built a plan in the analysis and then executed that plan inside of the system design and implementation. And the plan we had in the introduction slash analysis should be kind of covered here in the discussion. How well did we do it? It doesn't need to essentially be, here is the introduction, here are our goals, and here's how we actually matched them. But I do believe that that should be the core, or it should be very clear from the chapter. It shouldn't be something like, the main output of this thesis is the actual architecture and the actual experimental system. You are correct that that is the big output. It is essentially the master output from this thesis, the main output from this thesis. But it isn't what we outlined in the introduction. And since discussion should essentially cover what we built, but what we built in terms of also the introduction, we should really, like, connect it together. And while I agree that the system we built is actually much bigger than the example use cases, and its flexibility is enormous, and it's very useful for that, we should not lead with something like, we built this huge, great, awesome system, and then as a side note mention, oh, and it fulfills our introduction. We should instead switch it around and say, I don't know what concretely, I don't want to give words into your mouth, because, of course, your interpretation may be a little bit different, and that is fine, because it is good to have the outside perspective from you. But... I believe that we should kind of go from the introduction to this. So we should say that the output of the system is, or sorry, output of this thesis is a system that allows the whatever we outline in the introduction, and actually like go through it, go through the outline and how the system delivers it maybe. But also what we built and how what we built actually works, and how it, what it does and what it doesn't do. What are the results? What do we actually find? What are the results of our work? And I would say, I don't know if this is mentioned anywhere, but I would say that the big results are that compared to the relevant work chapter, our system does actually deliver an extensible, I would say that that's a big part because it is extensible, architecture on top of which we could actually build something. I don't want to push this strongly because the system is still highly experimental and it's not something that you would really take into the real world and just use as is. There will need to be a significant work done still, as it is outlined in the thesis. But it is actually, I would say, a really close system. Like it was, I feel like it was designed more as a more useful, actually real-life useful system compared to the ones that we have outlined. Because those are truly research systems, and research systems on top of one specific or two specific use cases, few specific use cases. Whereas my system was designed to be more extensible and more flexible. It has a lot of evitations and those are mentioned in the thesis, but it was designed to be this way. I think this is best covered in the related work part. I think it is mentioned there well. Because what we built is different from the related works, right? It is more well, it is more extensible, essentially. And what we found out by doing these use cases, I would say that for the pick-and-place use case, for pick-and-place, the task definition is highly specific. So for example, right, when you are a company that needs to have a pick-and-place task implemented, usually it's a bigger part than just take it from a conveyor belt and put it somewhere else. Usually the task is more specific. This is one such use case. Take it from the conveyor and put it somewhere else. And that is a use case that could be implemented inside of my system. But my system relies on external sensing, specifically on my own sensing, on my own camera. We could integrate external sensing into it, but all the data would have to pass through my system and not through the robot. Usually, the way this is implemented, for example, with the Keso robots, is that you take the robot, you connect some kind of industrial sensing system into it, and then you connect a gripper into it. And then there is an integrator, a person, that comes into your factory. That's how we did it in our Keso robots company. We had like these integrators that bought our robots and then integrated them into factories. So we didn't actually talk with the factories directly. We always went through, or usually went through, the integrators. And that means that a company, a factory, needed something moved somewhere, let's say, from a conveyor belt to like a box, right? So the integrator went, they built the robot, so they put the robot, the gripper, the camera system, then they came to the factory, they set it up, they calibrated it, and then they programmed it to do what the task demanded. But as you can see, these tasks are highly specific. This is conveyor belt to a box. You can have conveyor belt to another conveyor belt. You can have conveyor belt to like a machining area. So for example, you could have take it from a conveyor belt or take it from like a box or something and put it inside of a CNC machine where the robot just like places it, the machine grabs it, then the machine processes the object, then the robot grabs it again and takes it out and puts it into the output box. These are all highly specific tasks which would be hard to generalize using my system. I would say that's the main limitation of my system is that it is useful more for tasks that are truly repetitive, but truly repetitive on the factory level. Like you have a factory task that needs often to be retaught and it needs to be retaught by the factory staff. You cannot have integrator come in there and reteach it every single time, right? So you would have the factory staff having to reteach this and it needs to be the task that is easy enough and similar enough each time. So for example, for pick and place, it's kind of pointless because for pick and place, you have some kind of factory procedure. Like the conveyor belts to the box, and that usually doesn't change, so usually the task doesn't need to be rethought. And if it did need to be rethought often, for example, you, let's say there is a person who is sick, so you replace him with a robot for a while, then the person comes back and the person keeps doing it, and you can use the robot elsewhere. That's not really a real use that I would consider, but let's say it was. In that case, you still need, like if you go from conveyor belt to box, and suddenly you need to go from box to box, or conveyor belt to conveyor belt, or with a CNC machine, it gets much more complex. This isn't something that I think my system could easily support, because the task would need to be very general. You would need to have a lot of different use cases defined for all of these cases, or the use case would be very complex, and it would be hard to teach. Essentially, the point of use cases is to replicate a simple task, a task that is like often done and is often like the same thing all over and over and over again. That is meant to be replaced by my system. And that's why the welding is such an ideal candidate, because for welding, you have a task, weld this seam, and yes, that is also repetitive, for example, in car manufacturing, but then you have a small part manufacturing, right? You might have like a small batch manufacturing where you have 10 pieces, 100 pieces. And for those, you often have to reprogram the robot because you need to take three days to fulfill one batch, and then you need to change again, and you need to program it again differently. But the program is quite simple. It's literally just weld this, weld this, weld this, right? Always the same thing. And with welding specifically, you also have the advantages, which are not implemented in my system, but you also have the advantages of using touch sense and seam tracking. So my system doesn't need to be exactly precise. If we would actually implement all of this. So what you can do is, right now my system is set up for one-off weld, so you just weld one piece. But of course, like if you were to install a different piece in the same place, exactly the same place, then it could weld again another piece. Or if you had touch sensors set up and scene tracking, then you could weld multiple pieces because if you just put them a little bit wrong, it wouldn't matter because the touch sensors and scene tracking would take care of it. But easily, this system could be done where you would do like three welds in a row. Essentially, yeah, essentially this is exactly it. My system, as it is right now, if we added the scene tracking and touch sensors functionality, which would be added on the robot side, then my system could easily do like three welds in a row with all the, because it supports use case weld and it supports move command. So you could easily program such a program step by step with just the pen and minimal robot knowledge. Well, as long as you actually set it up initially. But then the actual users can be taught the minimal stuff and it's quite simple. Of course, the actual users in the factory can also be learned the robot programming language, which would make it much more general. But the issue with the robot programming language, if they learn it, first thing is, of course, overcoming the learning difficulty because it is quite a complex language still because it needs to be highly general. But the second hurdle is speed because you have to repeat yourself often and the programming is quite repetitive. Even with tools like smooth robotics, you still have to define the welding positions. And to define the welding positions or poses, you have to move the robot to such poses. Whereas with my system, you just put the pen there, point to the pen there, and technically you could also use that with your hand, right? You could do this exact same thing with your hand. So that massively simplifies the system. Of course, this relies on accurate object tracking or pen tracking, which I have not validated. So it still remains questionable, but I would say that would be the main use of this, of such system. And the more often you have to reprogram your welds, for example, if you truly do one-off pieces, if you are building some project and you just say, I need to weld here, I need to weld here, I need to weld here, then my solution is ideal because while it only supports linear welds and it's highly limited with all the scanning because it can only scan boxes and so on, if extended to a real use case, this would be very quick, very efficient. The actual use case would then be, or the actual use would be, you set up the pieces, you pick up the pen, you click weld, you start auto-loading parameters, and then you just draw where you want to weld, and you look at it in the visualization, you click confirm and start. It would take 30 seconds for you to actually teach a weld and start welding. That is a very efficient scenario, but it is highly situation dependent. That's not something that you would use for everything, right? You could do the exact same use case for the pick-and-place, but if you reset pick-and-place once a year, then it doesn't matter. It's wasted time. But if you do it often enough, like with one-off welding, then it is highly practical. So that's essentially the big advantage of my system and the disadvantage of my system, because it is very dependent on the use case. And I think this is quite important to mention in the discussion. This is the big part of the discussion because it directly ties into the introduction.


I feel like the start of your draft post is highly conclusion-like and summary-like, although I'm not saying that's a bad thing, I'm just saying it's a little bit AI-like maybe, I don't know what to say. One thing for you to remember, this is a very important, is you have done some kind of review of the existing information, but we will actually need to take the draft and actually write the text, right? That's, of course, after all, that's the goal. And what you need to do is, after you do actually write the text, you need to launch the agents to do the verification of truth, verify the truth, which will of course take several agents because they will need to actually verify it in the source texts, which again, are quite long. And also, you will need to verify grammar, and you will also need to verify style. That is very important. I want the style to continue from, I would say, particularly from system design, I think that was analysis and system design was like a nice style, implementation too. I want to keep the same style, both LaTeX, like formatting-wise, and both sentence-wise. I don't want this to seem like an AI-generated result, which I know it is, but I do want you to keep my style. You have tons of examples of my style, so I want to keep that. Make sure that it actually happens after you finish working on the final version, in a sense. Like you're saying, it is true that we focused frequently changing inverse space spatial authoring. That is all true. Essentially, like you're saying, it's spatial authoring for frequently changing tasks, which pick and place isn't, but pick and place tests something different. And I think pick and place is a really great result, or it's a nice show how our system operates. I think that's a good, interesting point of view, but at the same time, it's important to note that pick and place isn't actually, I would say, useful. Using my system for pick and place tasks is not a good use of my system. It's too pointless for that. It's too involved for that. Pick and place is too specific to be used here. It's much cheaper, like truly cheaper, even though it's expensive, to just use integrator for your specific use case, unless your task is very general and could be covered by this. Essentially, the idea, the whole idea of my thesis isn't really, I guess we could frame it as a different source of integrator, right? Because, and this is what I'm telling you now, this is not sourced in the thesis, I think in any way, maybe verify that in the introduction. But normally, like I said, it's a robot company makes robots, then integrators can buy those robots and they can integrate them into factories, right? There is these like three different parts. There is the customer, there is the middleman, in a way, and there is the robot manufacturing company and programming company, right? These three different sides interact. Of course, you can directly sell to customers, well, factories, but that's usually for bigger brands, not really what we had. But my system explored, I guess, a different approach to this. That's just my ideas of the top of my head right now. My system explored a different idea for this. Not integrators that come and one-off give you a solution, but an integration of, you need not to have this done, but you need to have a robot with a certain capability and certain reprogramming capability where you are able to reprogram the robot easily for your specific task. And for that, you can actually use a different approach where you could give the person the robot, all the hardware connected to this, and also a specific use case programmed on top of my system. Again, this is just thinking, my system is not ready for it, but technically it is, but I wouldn't use it in that way yet. Like it would require a lot of work to be commercially usable. But technically, we could use it that way, where the integrator would be much more like involved or high level, and they would actually develop a use case for my system, and they would just sell the customer the robot with all the connected hardware, like gripper, camera, and so on, and some kind of system running my software, and the use case for their specific use, essentially. And the customer would then, and of course, like the pen or pen tracking or whatever algorithm is needed. And the customer would then be able to reprogram this robot to this very specific task, but very simply and very easily. They could do it without any robot knowledge, which, again, is expected currently from the factories because the factories just let the integrator set it up and take care of it. So this would be the exact same thing. The integrator would just set it up and take care of it, and the factory wouldn't really touch it. And my system goes a step further because it wouldn't be a static program, but it would be a dynamic based on the actual need. So you would be able to essentially give the robot some kind of spatial intent, whereas normally you actually have that already, right? You already have that with pick and place. Pick and place truly does have a spatial intent part of it because it knows that there is an object. It scans the scene, it knows there is an object, so it picks it up and moves it. But that's still a static intent where it knows the scene, but that is hard programmed into it. Whereas in my use, the user, the factory would have the pen or the hand tracking or whatever, and they would be able to use that hardware or their hands to actually redefine the program. So for example, it could be used for like painting, like spray painting. They could put the object in there, the camera could scan it, detect the object, and then the user would specify, like, I want this part spray painted, and they would just show like an area of it, and the system would just do that, right? It would be like some kind of not fully automated, but partial automation, I guess, for tasks that are too much changing for just pure automation, but for parts of those tasks, they are better left to a robot, which I'm all, in my opinion, welding, for example, would be better done by a robot, partially because you could just increase the throughput because you could let the robot weld and you could go somewhere else and pick up next materials and... or bring away the existing material and you could just literally like put stuff together and you could just tell the robot weld here, weld here, and in the meantime, you could go somewhere else, bring other materials or bring the existing product somewhere else. And like it's an integration with like human-robot integration. It's not fully automatic, for that this system isn't good. And it's not fully manual, where the user does everything, where the person does everything. It's somewhere in between. It combines the advantages of both the robot precision and repetitiveness and the human intuitiveness and human, well, thinking, right? Because the human wants to devise the task, but it doesn't, he doesn't care how the task is performed. And that's where the robot is for. So it's this integration between them. And I think this is a really good point for actually this discussion. Because I feel like your draft prose, the first paragraph of it, is kind of a summary of what we did, and that kind of belongs in conclusion, I feel. Maybe not entirely discussion, although I think that maybe it is, it makes sense in the beginning of a discussion to actually summarize what we did, because discussion is the chapter that people jump to after, you know, not reading it because the thesis is too long, because it's like 140 pages. So they will jump to discussion because that's where the interesting stuff happens, right? So some kind of summary makes sense. But I'm just saying that I would like to have some new ideas there, like what I'm just telling you now. And the summary, but for it to be useful and not just repeating completely what we said in the thesis. I think it should be a summary of the issues and of the results we had. That is good, but it should also, like, bring these ideas that I'm telling you now. Because that way, it's not just AI generated slop, in a way, from the existing text, which I don't think that's a bad thing. That's why I asked you to do it. But it is, it is not ideal, because then, like, why read it if you already read the text? Why read this? Right? You could just ask AI to summarize the text for you, and you wouldn't need to read the discussion. I think that it should offer fresh perspectives, but at the same time, it should be mostly rounded, like, most of it should be related to the actual thesis text, because it is discussion of the results. How are the results? And I think that discussion, well, to be fair, the discussion, specifically the discussion, is more open-ended, like, what did I think? And actually, that's literally what I'm telling you now. What did I think? What do I think that the results are? What did this show us? What did this teach us? What was, like, compared to the introduction, what did we find? And like I said, we found this could be really useful in some cases, but not in others. Another thing to note, which you should really know, is there is no formal testing. I talked with my advisor about this, and he said, no, do not do any user testing. That will be essentially, you can set that as a future work, like to thoroughly test this system. Do not do it now, but set it as a future work plan, as a future work idea to thoroughly test it. So that way, we say we built this, but we haven't tested it, but there is the future work goal. By the way, I don't know if you also went through the outline v2.md. You should go through that if you didn't, because that actually contains the plan for, well, for all of this, for these chapters. It's more of a note, like what to cover, what we should cover. I'm not saying that you need to cover that. I feel like what you need to cover is mostly what I'm talking about now, like this whole message that I'm sending you now. But there might be some good stuff there too. So I would say that it is okay to run your agents again, and I think that you should probably first think about all of these inputs that you have from me, from your agents, from the outline v2, and you should probably think what you want to do next, because I think that you should probably go back and, or first, you should probably... Think how to structure it based on all of this, like, let's say, first draft text from me and from the agents. And then next, I think you should maybe think if you need any more information, then you could run the agents again, and you could again let them explore the existing text. And let them work on the existing text and provide new summaries. You shouldn't, they shouldn't overwrite the existing summaries, but you should let them create new summaries, if you need that. I don't know if you do, but I feel like we are diverging slightly in the final text and in the outline and in what I was kind of having as an idea. Of course, we are partially diverging because what I'm telling you now isn't covered by the text and is what I kind of want to have in the discussion. So, of course, that won't be covered in the text anyways. But you might find something there. That is up to you to decide. I don't know, because I don't see the entire text at once like you do. So you do you, essentially. But keep in mind, your context is limited, so you should only load whatever is actually needed and maybe keep the work for your agents. You should really use sub-agents as much as you can if you need that. Like, if you think you need it, like 30% chance, then just use it. It is better to use an agent and not need it than not use it because she and lose some information. So always use agents when you think you need the agents. It doesn't matter, we are within, well within limits. Because we want good results here, and that requires exploration of the text. And you shouldn't do, you should really be an orchestrator, you shouldn't do, you shouldn't really do this yourself. You should let the agents work, mostly. You should just orchestrate it because your context is limited. I feel like your 6.2 is kind of weak in a way. It is true, but it's a summary. I want to say, what is the result? I want to say, we build up this much, and now what? Now what? What is the result? How do we feel about it? How does it look? Does it perform well? Does it make sense? Why did we do it? And what are the actual results? What did it bring to us? And I think that's actually, again, that's what I told you. And I think that it's fine to keep these chapters even short. And what you're saying is good, but it reads like a pure summary of the existing text, which I guess makes sense given what I gave you for your task. But I don't like it reading as a pure summary. I would like it to read as what we actually built compared to the introduction, because summary is fine as long as you anchor it to the introduction. Like this was our plans, and this is what we built. But I would really strongly suggest to put as much of my text in there without it sounding weird. What I told you, you can treat it as almost ground truth. You can use that. That's discussion. Discussion doesn't need to be perfect in terms of truth, but most of what I told you is safe to be put in there. I wouldn't do it word for word. You reword it, but you reword it in a way that it is consistent with the existing text. And that can be done secondarily after you write some notes. But ideally, the way you would do this is you would write detailed notes, what to write about, and then you would let a sub-agent, would write these detailed notes, what to write about, and then another sub-agent would take into context the relevant parts of the existing chapters, and it would take these notes and it would write part of the chapter or the whole chapter altogether, right? And always when you write like next part, next section and so on, you should, if you launch a new sub-agent for it, which I think you should, if they run out of memory or are close to running out of memory, then you should always give them like at least a part of the existing text so that they know how to continue in the same style. So they don't converge to the GPT AI looking style, but so they keep consistent with the existing text style. reading your, continuing on your six two, use case 3 is like an option. I wouldn't say it's like a big choice we could talk about. I think it's more of a limitation and more of a stylistic choice to allow experimentation. It wasn't, well, it was planned originally. It was thought about as soon as we actually started thinking about this, how to actually like connect these use cases and maybe do multiple ones. But we actually talked about this initially and we were talking about how to manage this. And one of the ideas was to do it like actually a full graph with ifs, with variables, with for loops, with all of this, but I was saying like that's so much work. That's like a whole programming language, that's insane to do in a thesis. So one of the discussions we had was actually implementing my system as a part of the robot, as a part of the castle robot. Because the castle robot already has this like command structure, command like programming, GUI programming tool. And I could implement my own system as part of this command. I would just call the my command and it would show a custom UI which would essentially be my UI with all the visualizations and all of the commands and you would select the command there. Inside my UI you would select the command, give it the spatial inputs, and confirm it, and you would be able to run it. That is not implemented, but it is actually possible, I think. So that my system was designed in a way where this would be a possibility. I am not 100% sure this is actually possible. I have not tested this, but I am... Like, I'm mostly sure it should be doable because it was designed for this exact purpose, for this to be doable. It was designed primarily for the use case tree, but it was designed in a way where using another port in a way of this inside of the castle robot program tree would also be a possibility, because that's quite important, because that would give me easy access to the program tree and so on. So that's another nitpick of information. And I think, again, a lot of this is written in the outline V2 MD, so you should reference that. But yeah, that's another result that is quite important. This was not actually implemented, and I think this fits well into future work, that it could be, like, moved towards this robot teach pendant plugin, but, you know, it's just a side note, essentially, but I think it's a nice one because it's part of the design, it was considered in the design, and it was, well, allowed for in the design. But the use case tree is just, I don't want to say stylistic choice, but it was a choice while programming it to have some flexibility, to have some possibility of having multiple commands, like in a linear list, without the complexities of actually parsing if logic, for logic, and variables, and so on. So it was like a middle way, middle ground, essentially, decision, where you could have all of these programs or all of these commands one by one for easier testing and for easier use, for example, if you want to weld multiple pieces one after the other, but still simplify it for... Still simple enough that it is like implementable reasonably fast. But I wouldn't go into too much detail on this. This is nice, but it's not a specific result. It's not something that we asked for initially, and it's not something we have focused a lot of time on. This is not like this huge, big result, like this is, I'm presenting it to the use case tree, this massive awesome thing that allows you to run multiple commands in a row. That's not a big thing, that's just a small decision. But it is of note. I would say it is possible, but it's not something that I would like take much time in the discussion. Yes, yes, it's a good point to discuss it in terms of we didn't do one-off commands and we didn't do a robot full language, full robot language. We did something in the middle. We did some kind of like you can have a list of commands one by one. And these are the results we chose, and we chose it for this. But that kind of belongs in the analysis anyways. So I don't know how much we want to discuss this. I would like to have the discussion of results. What did we learn and what are the outputs of our system? And I think that what did we learn was really mentioned well in the past messages. And what are the results of the system? Well, I think that the strongest thesis level outcome is the extensible system architecture itself. Exactly, like you're saying. I would make it a little bit, this isn't what I would give, like this is the main output of our thesis. The main output of our thesis is supposed to be, well, yes, this system, because that was in the introduction. But this sounds like we started this. Research question, like, can we do this? Can we implement something like this? Can we have this kind of system where we can extend it and we can have spatial inputs? And here we say, and we have this extensible system architecture, which is huge and extensible and very flexible, and you can exchange every part. The exchanging the part, the exchanging every part, was never mentioned as a requirement. Like a lot of this that I implemented was not mentioned as a requirement. So I'm just saying, be careful in what you say, because if you say something like, we have this awesome thing that exactly fulfills what we needed, yeah, true, but a lot of it was not required by the initial, well, requirement, right? So be careful with the wording, because it turns, I'm not sure what is in the interaction, so again, take my words with a grain of salt, but I feel like what I'm reading here is that we started with a research question and we ended up with architectural result. We started like, is this possible? And the result is, we built an architecture that makes it awesome and great and so on. And you're reading like, yeah, that's great. And you know this architecture that makes it essentially almost commercial grade architecture, let's say, right? But like, that wasn't the point. The point was the research question, like, is this possible? Try it out, see how it behaves and so on. And part of that research question would be, typically, some kind of experiment on people, which of course I didn't do. And I'm not saying that's a good thing or a bad thing. I would say that I wouldn't mention it until the future work, but... I'm just saying, it is, just make sure there is no mismatch between the actual requirements, introduction, and this. I think that, like you say, separates contracts from implementation strongly enough that sensing components, blah blah blah, can be changed without rewriting the entire system. That is great, but I'm not sure how much of this belongs in the discussion. I think it is, this should be in the discussion. You're good for saying that, and we should somehow integrate it, because this is what I want. I want to say, well, what I said initially with the messages, but I also want to say, we built this whole huge extensible system, and that is a big result of this. This is not why we did this. The point was not to build this experimental system, but we did build this huge, great experimental system, which, yes, it is somewhat fragile, but it is still a valid result of the thesis. It's still a great result, even from an architectural point of view. It's still a pretty good result. So I would say, keep it, just be safe about it. Especially when you say a reusable framework for future spatial ordering experiments and thus plugins. True, but also it's not perfect. There's a lot of bugs there. So I would be careful with the language here. Just do not promise something that we can't say. If I say, this is the perfect way, this is a replacement for ROS, of course, I am over-exaggerating. But keep in mind that you don't promise something that we didn't actually do, right? That's why I told you to actually go through the text and double-check. And again, the same thing goes for the use case 3. Use case 3, don't over-promise. It is... A feature that allows us to have multiple commands at once, which was mainly for testing purposes, and it is kind of practical if you need that. It's great, exactly, it's great for testing, for me. It's great to show that you can do it and it's the bare minimum that you would need for, let's say, a production setup, but it's not anything to write home about. It's not anything fancy, it's not anything too great. It's good that it's there, but it's not something that I would mention extremely strongly, that I would lean on highly. The two main use cases, you say that they should be discussed as complementary, oh, yeah, that's fine. They shouldn't be, they should not be discussed as complementary, or they shouldn't be discussed as afterthoughts, afterthoughts of the system architecture. So essentially what I'm saying is, it shouldn't be discussion where we say, we built this awesome system architecture and spent 80% on the system architecture and they say, and then in the end say, and there are these two use cases, which we built, as we said in the introduction, we have fulfilled that actually. There are these two and they show these things. That should be the core, the use cases and how they behave and how they can be represented or interpreted. That interpretation is the core of discussion. That is the point of discussion. And that's again, that again ties into the messages or into the, what I told you previously in this text, in my message, that is very important to mention. That is the base of discussion. And all of these things are actually, well, extras in a way. They are also important. I would also mention them, but I'm just saying that you should base it on top. You should build all of this like, these are the results. These are, this is what our system gives us. And this is from the research level perspective, what we found out. And then we can go into, and we will rebuild this system and so on and so on. I'm not saying that it just to be in this order, but we should mention these two things. And the primary thing should be the actual results for these use cases and what it means. Your sim-welding is a stronger demonstration of trajectory-centric spatial autoering, rough user input is aligned, and materialized into an executable plan. That is true, but it's completely pointless. We know that from the thesis. We should not say what it is, we should say what it means. What is the result? Again, like I told you previously, that should be the idea. Essentially, what I'm saying is you should take the idea from my head and put it into the thesis, which is impossible for you, but you do have some information. And even if it is shorter, we want a high-quality text that's not just repeating exactly what was in the thesis previously. But that's like partially summarizing the important notes, which is more the limitation than what we achieved. But also, it should say what we achieved, part of it, that's the part that you are great at. And it should also say what are the actual, what it leads to, what are the results, what does it mean, what did we build, why did we build it, and what is it useful for. This kind of like more high-level things. And you are able, or I'm allowing you to actually think about it too and come out with your own ideas or your own discussion part, you can write that. Use mine as inspiration and integrate mine, that's important. But also, if you think that you should, you are able to write more somewhere, again, launch an agent for this, then try it, because I think that it's great to write a nice discussion. But at the same time, a discussion, it's pointless to write text for the sake of text. So less is more here. If it is high-quality text, we want to keep high-quality text. So me telling you is good. You coming back with random text just to fill up the space is bad for me and for the reviewer, and for the potential readers. So, um, if we do it for like, let's say, three to five pages for the discussion, perfect. If we do 10 pages, awesome, as long as it's high-quality text. Terrible if it's low-quality text, if it's a filler text. One page is bad. I would say one page, well, if it's really high-quality text for that one page, I think it's fine, but I would prefer at least two or three pages minimum. But I don't think it's going to be a problem with our writing. There is a lot of things, and we do want some of the summaries here. I just don't want you to say whatever you said with the scene building. Yeah, it is a stronger demonstration, but it means nothing. You just summarized it. You didn't say why it's a stronger demonstration, what it means, what is the result of that. That's what a reader wants. I think the pick and place does demonstrate a different strength, exactly like you say, namely scene adaptive execution within the current box model, box-based model. Box-based model is, we don't need to discuss that. That's part of the limitations, actually. It doesn't need to be here in the, what works well. The important part from the pick and place is that it can be flexible even for, or our system can be flexible, even for these dynamic situations where the code needs to adapt. So it's not a fixed, generated, executable plan, but it's something that can actually adapt at real time, at runtime, I mean, at runtime, and can change, essentially, which is pretty good. But that brings us to a big limitation of our system, and that is that the code cannot be exported to the robot. You cannot export a dynamic code, because the code depends on the camera, and the camera is connected to, well, my system, not to the robot. So this code must always run through my system, which is a limitation. It's a big limitation, I would say. And it wasn't meant like this. It was essentially exactly because of the pick and place task, where my advisor said, well, we should probably do it, like, Like if you define it and you run it again with the box in a different place, it should still pick that box from a different place. And I said, well, okay, I didn't actually think of that. I don't know if I like it. And but I did think it was a good idea, so that's how we did it. If this wasn't there, this is a huge design decision. If this wasn't there, this dynamic execution limitation, then we would be able to run this whole pipeline and export the whole system, the whole program to the robot and then run it only on the robot, which would be, I would say, a big advantage for multiple reasons. Like for example, you wouldn't rely on my system, which is not real-time, it's slow, it's connected over Ethernet. The robot would be directly running it in C++ code on the robot controller. And my system provides yet another layer of bugs, interconnection, potential issues. So I would say being able to export the code and run it directly on the robot is a big advantage, but unfortunately, due to the way that, for example, the dynamic execution was chosen, it is much harder. I wouldn't say it's impossible. It would be possible probably somehow, but it is much harder. So hence, our system does not allow exporting of the robot program. I mean, it could still be done. I could still, like, support it. And my system doesn't forbid you to actually export it. I think, yeah, like if you extended the interface, you could do it. It's not like it's written in stone that it's impossible. Actually, it would not be that hard to export the robot program. But the hard part would be to define an interface for it, just like defining the robot interface. You say that there are commands to store subject identity and relative pick transform for the pick and place, that's an implementation-level detail. I don't think that we should mention that in the discussion. The discussion should be mainly high level, and mainly like results. What did we achieve and what does it mean? That should be, that write it, remember it. That is your goal. Discussion is what we achieved and what does it mean. What does it mean for the world? What did we bring? What value do we bring with our system? Why? And it can be negative too. Well, negative in a way. You can say, well, we attended this and it just doesn't make sense in any situation. It's completely, I don't wanna say completely useless, you would never use those words, but you would talk about it. Talk around it. You could say, like, it's a valid result to say that your thesis doesn't bring anything and it's a blind, blind path. That's a completely valid result, but it's not our case. Our case is truly useful in some situations. Not in the current form, but the idea, I would say, is proven, of course, depending on if we can get the pin tracking highly accurate enough, and if it would actually be used. But I think that, for example, especially for the welding, it could be really practical, like this system. That's a really hard, like, that's something I really lean against strongly here, because it's truly practical for that use case. Of course, I don't have feedback from real welders, so that makes it a little bit harder, but I would say that it would simplify the programming. Again, we do not have any comparisons, any time comparisons, any ELIM comparisons, any movement comparisons, nothing. We have nothing to actually compare it completely, but I would say, and that's up to you now, to somehow, like, convey this message without sounding too sure. Essentially, your job will be to convey whatever I'm telling you now to the user via, or to the reader, via the discussion chapter and, well, conclusion and future work chapters in a way that doesn't overpromise, doesn't say, we are clearly better without any anything to, like, hold against, like, we cannot say we are better when we haven't tested it. But like, you can see that we are better. You can see that... You can see that our system is better, and you have to convey it in a way that makes sense. Like, I agree that it's not ideal. I agree that having experiments would be much better, but there was no time for them, and I cannot do them. So we somehow have to convey that moving the robot by hand or by the teach pen is just simply much slower than doing it with this, like, click, one click with the pen, and done. This is strongly dependent on the pen actually being tracked well enough. That is a big, big issue. Calibration and pen tracking is a huge discussion point. That's a huge potential negative, and we have not tested it either. That's a really big potential issue that would limit the usability of my system to potentially complete uselessness. So in simulation, yeah, it looks great. In real life, who knows? I have tried playing around with it. It was not exactly accurate. It was okay. I wouldn't say it was great, but it was okay. And I think that it would be up to you to actually say, to actually convey this message. I wouldn't say it is bad, but I would really, essentially, you should probably create some summary. I don't know exactly how you would write this. I don't want to write a summary again. I don't like summaries because that sounds like we are just repeating ourselves. I want what and why. What did we build and what are the results, and why should anyone care? That's what your goal is. And we want to start maybe with some kind of intro into this chapter. Then we kind of want to maybe go into, like, yeah, what works well? What did we build? What are the results? And now we want to cover the positive things. Like, we will this, and we have found out that, and this works well, and we have created this whole architecture that is extensible, and we can exchange different parts for something else. And be super positive. Well, not be positive without cause, but be like, talk about what we built and what we built well, what is good. And then, again, you have the evidence for it. And then I will talk about exactly like you're saying, the limitations and the threats to validity. That is really important. And that's where I would mention stuff like the camera calibration, the camera tracking, the pen positioning, all of these things which could, like, make or break the transfer from my current state to a real commercial application. That's not the goal, by the way. It's not the goal to create a commercial application out of this, but it's a good proxy for saying that my system is useful. Again, this should be more, I don't wanna say high level, but it should be more high level. Like, we have built a system that explores the stuff we talked about in the introduction. And now we want to say, first, how it does that and how well it does that, and what are the results and how do they look. And second, we want to say, but what are the limitations? What are the problems of our system? What are the hard parts? What would be hard if we wanted to turn this commercial? And I think one of the things is, like I said, the camera calibration, camera mounting, actual pen tracking, the techniques for it. Then there are, of course, code limitations, but that's more of a current code issue. I would maybe mention the code issues, stuff like that it's just not ideal. You can see that in the system design chapter. But I don't know if I want to talk about it in the discussion chapter. Maybe I would, maybe we should shortly mention this isn't the ideal, there are some bugs in the code which would need to be worked out to make this commercially viable. But I don't really want to mention commercially viable. It is, let's say, the unofficial goal. And if you think it will help the discussion chapter, we can 100% mention it. But it's not something that I'm forcing you to mention, is what I'm trying to say. You mentioned the system is not a full programming language and intentionally uses a linear sequential model. This is one of the biggest issues I have also talked about it in the previous part. But I think that the linear sequential command model is not a big issue. I would certainly not mention this as a big limitation, especially not at the start. This is not actually an issue. It really depends on the usage. I have verified that per command, it makes sense for some specific commands, like I already talked about, to use this spatial input. The linear program is literally just a tool I used to verify that. That's not something I would talk about in a positive or in a negative way. It's not good or bad. It was a tool that I used. I wouldn't mention this in the discussion at all or just slightly. It doesn't affect the results in any way, because our result is not a commercially viable product. So the linear program, there is multiple issues before this became a commercially viable product. So the linear program is just a tool. It's not bad or good. It saves time and it allowed us to explore like linear programs, which I think is a net positive. It's ideal, exactly ideal for our situation. And I wouldn't even say that you want to have a rich robot programming environment, because that's exactly what we want to avoid with our system. Our system is meant as a task-specific command. You want to teach it and then run it. That's it. And now the question, well, question of this discussion, exactly what we talked about, right? The question of this discussion is to say, well, what about we do it now? Is this a one-off command? Does it make sense? Let's say, does it make sense to use my system as just a one-off welding command? You program it, you click run, and done. That's it. That's your program used. You can run it again if you like replace the metal, but you can also just throw it away and start a new program. Literally, literally one-off. You set up two pieces of metal, you would take your pen, you click weld, you teach the Waseem, and you click start. Then you take another two pieces of metal, move them somewhere else or at another piece of metal, move it to this existing welded part, and take your pen, draw again, click start, and you repeat this. Essentially, a truly a one-off system. Essentially, you just tell the robot what to do, and essentially, it will do it. That was my whole idea with the welding. That's partially what I was going for with this whole... validating infrastructure and maybe this whole spatial input, because that's exactly what it would be usable for. Very specific commands, not something you would really use a robot for naturally, because it's very hard to program it. But if you had this tool, again, this is, by the way, this is great for the discussion. If you have this tool where you could easily tell the robot what to do, it would allow you to, it would open up much more, or potentially, again, no guarantee here, but it will potentially open up many more use cases, exactly like the welding. You would never use it for this one of welds, because it takes too long to actually set it up and do it. But even on the smooth robotics website, there is like, you know, user stories or reviews which say, if I weld longer than six inches, I just program it using the smooth tool. And my system would be even faster in the smooth tool, much faster. because the smooth tool still uses, the user still has to move the robot head to the right place, whereas my system, you just define it with the pen. So it would be much faster and much more useful, so it would truly be useful for one of welds. So that's the one approach or one possibility, truly one of operation, which makes no sense in pick and place, because you you would never use it, right? Why would you use it in a pick and place scenario? Because you can just pick it and place it by hand then. You don't need a robot to do it. You only need to do this or use this for things that you cannot do by hand. Or maybe the robot would do faster. Another example is maybe like, uh, you want to unscrew the whole bottom of a laptop, just a toy example that I just thought of. You want to unscrew a whole bottom of the laptop and you could do it by hand, yes, but you could just take a pen and click on each screw and then just click start and the robot would just like look at it. It would analyze the laptop from the camera stream, it would see all the screws, it would see which ones you pointed at. It would go and slowly unscrew all of the screws. It would do this much faster than you and you could do something else in the meantime. That is the entire point of this thesis, to be able to have this robot-human integration, interaction. And I think this is a really strong result. This is a great result because it would allow us to actually work alongside with the robot, which is a perfect use case for a cooperative robot. That's the whole point of cooperative robots. They are always used in factories, as far as I know from the Casco robot company, they are always used in factories, um, alongside humans, but they work as real robots. They don't work as cooperative robots. They work as a real robot with the advantage of not having to be closed in a cage, safety cage, right. Normal robots need to be closed up in safety cages to avoid, you know, hitting a human. There has to be like laser, um, what is it called? Um... Like there have to be sensors. If a human enters into the space, the robot has to stop, no questions asked. And cobots allow you to not have the to stop a robot. The robot can continue operating because it is safe to operate those around humans. That's the point of cobots. But that's the point of cooperative robots. But with my system, you could truly have a human-robot integration. I'm overselling my system right now because, of course, there's a lot of things that would be required to actually manage this. But you could have a true robot-human integration. And my system would allow this. For specific tasks, you could truly design a use case where the user would literally just point at things he wants or she wants to be done with the pen and the robot would do it, right? That would be the understanding. The understanding would be in the use case. In the use case program, you would have the understanding that would get the camera data, the pen data, the scene data, and it would combine all of this data into a robot program that would then be executed, and the user doesn't need to actually program all of these little tasks by themselves, and they can just use this one-time use case that the use case was developed one time, and now it can be used as many times as needed, which could speed up production, it could speed up work for people. This is genuinely a great use. One, but here we are still talking about the one-off use. here we go to another issue. Another issue is the scene understanding, that's obviously a big issue. Another issue is the pen tracking, that's a big issue. Then you have to build the use case. Another issue, of course, someone has to build the use case. But that's a small issue because it's essentially the same thing as an integrator having to set up the robot, but instead you have to build the use case now. Oh yeah, one more issue. Another issue that I would put in the limitations is actually planning. This is, again, this is mentioned in the outline v2, and you should read that and write these limitations according to that. Not every single one, but like the main ones. And for example, the planning the paths is a big issue, of course, because you somehow need to plan the robot path in a way it doesn't collide with the scene and with the human, ideally. With the scene, that's kind of easy because if you have the scene understanding and scene detection, then you can plan around it. But with the human, it's a little bit harder, but like you could integrate more sensors into it. And my system is flexible. Like you can do that. You can integrate multiple sensors into it. So it is doable, but it's not implemented right now. But another, well, connected big issue with the system is that there is no such implementation right now. Right now it's just stupid go to pose, right? There's no planning. There's no collision avoidance. There's no human avoidance. There's nothing. No self-collision, nothing. It can do anything, and the most we have seen this is actually not self-collision, but reaching the limits of the joints, because the joints usually on these robots have some kind of range. I think for our robots, it was minus 2 pi to 2 pi, so essentially two full rotations. But the issue is you can easily reach these limits if you don't set up the initial pose correctly. And if we are talking about very high-level programming where you just point at poses and expect the robot to do it, then you kind of come up to this issue. It's a technical issue, yes, but you kind of come up to this issue where the robot will try to move to the pose. And since my code is also using just a high-level move command, linear move here, the robot will actually handle the planning and it will plan it in a way that is the shortest way, which will get us, of course, to the best position. to the bad joint position. And that happened often, that happened very often. So that would require 100%, that would require a fix. That's one big issue. That would be a big limitation for the real use. Yeah, back to this linear language. Yeah, essentially, so that's one way to think about this, to have this single one-off command. That is acceptable, I think, and that works. And as I just told you, I think that should be maybe our goal. Our goal should be mainly to do, again, this is the important discussion, this is what you should write about, exactly what I'm writing to you now. This is what you should write there, and you should not do it word for word, but you should do it in similar length and similar detail. And you should convey all of these ideas to the reader. But if we go beyond the one-off command, we want to repeat the commands, right? Then let's say it's the welding command. Let's say you want to do welding and you want to do one weld and do it multiple times. Well, then if you have this one part that you want to weld, then you remove the part, put new parts in there, weld, remove the part, and so on. Then you can do this with probably better with seam tracking and touch sense. So that's still doable. But usually, you don't do just one part. You set up three parts or five parts, let the robot weld them all, then set up another five parts and let the robot weld them all. That's more common for a small part or a small batch operation. Especially when you don't have one part that you want to build, let's say, your guy who wants to build this huge, like, metal cool thing, right? Then you just, you can just tell the robot one of weld here, weld here, weld here, and the robot will do it. But if you are truly doing a small batch, then you usually do it like serially. You do, like, multiple parts, let's say, at once. And then you would probably set them up side by side. And in that case, you would need, well, you wouldn't need to have multiple commands. You could just have one welding command, which would accept multiple trajectories, and it will plan this whole path as one welding command. That is completely acceptable, and I think that is actually a great example of a use case, of a welding use case, because that's the entire point. You should have one simple use case, one one-off use case that could be repeated, run over and over again, if you set up the parts in the same place, or the system can find them in similar places, and then touch sense and seam tracking will be used to improve the positioning. Then you could just have a one-off command that the user defined multiple paths, and the robot will always follow these multiple paths. That's completely, I think, great for the one-off or repeated one-off command. But also, like, maybe the linear use case wouldn't be a terrible idea, especially for this, because it would allow you to do these multiple things at once. Like, there are tasks that are clearly distinct where it would make sense to behave differently. But the more I'm thinking about it, I'm thinking that maybe it should be truly a one-off task. Then you could go into the complex robot programming or full robot programming language, and I think that that is way too far, because the entire point of the system is to simplify programming. And if you switch to full robot programming language, then my input, which is the spatial input, essentially turns just into a post input. Essentially, what you would do then, or what you could do then, is you could use my system purely as the post input into the actual robot teach pendant, which again, by the way... It could be supported by my system. I think that my system would support you to use the pen as a way to set a pose on the KASO robot, on the KASO cooperative robot. I think that we have like an extension where we can define the pose in different ways, and this is one of the ways that we could literally do it. I could literally set it up where I could define a pose on the KASO robot using my pen. And then that turns us, that turns the system into the full robot programming language, because what is better than the actual teach pendant programming language? There is nothing better. That's exactly developed for the robot. But I don't think that's the goal of this thesis. The goal of this thesis was to make it simple for a user to enter a repetitive program, which is perfect for the one-off programs. That's exactly the perfect use case. If you want to do more complex things, I think my system, again, my system is highly flexible, and this should be pointed out. The flexibility of it, it could be like, like when we are talking about all of the flexibility, this is like a positive way to say, and it could be used for essentially calling the command inside of the KASO robot, or even for sending just the pose in the KASO robot, so we just use it as an accessory for defining the poses and fully doing the robot programming on site, on the site of the KASO robot. But it's not the main goal. The main goal is to simplify programming. But again, great that it's so flexible. And by all of this, I'm trying to say that the linear sequential command model, you say it's a disadvantage, and I completely disagree. That's not a disadvantage or an advantage. It was a design choice to allow better testing. And I think that the linear model actually... is a good point even if we are doing the one-off system because sometimes you do want something that's a little bit more complicated than just a simple move and this gives you just the slightly more flexibility if you ever need it. So for example, if you need some kind of like linear move before this or joint move before this, which joint moves are great because joint moves before your command ensure that it will always behave the same, right? After or before each run or after each run, you can go to the same joint move position and then you will know that every run will be exactly or mostly the same unless you have stuff like vision in there or runtime detection, which I think is a great note because if you have just free linear commands, then you can easily turn the robot and get out of the joint range, but if you have a joint move in there and one run goes through, then all of the runs will go through. So I would say that the linear programming language is actually an advantage that gives more, let's say, power users an advantage in using my system, but it's not the main intended use case. The main intended use case is the one-off. This is just more flexibility.


I would say continuing with the limitations. One of the limitations, exactly like you say, is the tool control. Actually, both the robot control and tool control are pretty bad. Robot control is very early, very basic. I think that that should be redesigned. I think that ideally, the robot should allow like some kind of streaming or joint poses, and we would do all of this on the, on our side, essentially. We would do all the linear and so on motions on our side, and then you just stream the joint poses, because then we could do collision avoidance. Again, this counterizing into the planning and collision avoidance, I don't think it, I don't think we should go too deep into this, but it is true that the robot programming is quite, or robot control is quite simple, especially in the planning department, but also the motion is highly connected to the Kessel robot. And of course, other robots would support this, or we could abstract it away by allowing only the joint moves, or not allowing only the joint moves, but by using only the joint moves of the robot and then just like hide away that we are using the joint moves to do a linear move, let's say. But it's not, I would say it's not well thought through. It's not a bad design, but it is not a great design either. Then also, like you are saying, the robot control or tool control is completely ignored in my demo. There's no tool control whatsoever. I don't think it's a big issue, because for the demo purposes, I think it's fine, but in a real commercial setting, this would be a huge pain in the ass, essentially. I was trying to figure out how will you do this. I think the best way to do this would be to disconnect robot control from tool control and have tool control separate, and then we could define interfaces that would be used by the use cases, and you could also, since the use cases develop, or the use cases would be partially general, yes, but also use cases are task specific and they are kind of like, one of the ideas that I offered in my earlier part of the message was that use cases will be developed by something like integrators for a specific company. And in such a case, we are OK with the use case using a proprietary module for communicating with the gripper, right? Because we don't care. Like if there is a specific interface, let's say there is like 10 grippers we support, right? An example situation, we support 10 different grippers. Well, if each one of them has a different interface, it doesn't matter if the use case is also different for each customer, because then the use case will just use whatever gripper the customer has. That's the interface that the use case integrator will use. And it's fine. There is no limitation then. So that's one approach. Or the other approach would be to develop some kind of general gripper interface, which could then be used in each use case. There's multiple ideas how to fix this, but right now there is no such solution. So I think that this belongs in a future work part, but also it belongs here, that there is no such implementation for the gripper control. It's a true limitation of our system. It doesn't invalidate our findings. In fact, it's one of the least interesting or important parts because while it is an issue, it is a solvable issue. Unlike the scene detection or pen tracking, which, yes, technically those are also solvable, but they could become a much bigger issue if not properly solved. And we don't know if they are actually solvable to the level that we need. You were saying stuff like marker tracking is sensitive to occlusion, blur, lighting, calibration quality. That's all true, and I would actually discuss this. I would say we use marker-based tracking, which has these limitations. I wanted to say we shouldn't go into such detail, but we can mention it briefly that we do use marker-based tracking for simplicity, but that does have all of these limitations. But again, focus on the what and what does it mean. So what does it mean? Well, it means that we don't know if we observed that it can be a bit noisy and the Z is not necessarily accurate, but we don't know if other solutions make it accurate enough. What we do see in VR, for example, is that clearly the controllers in VR are tracked and are smoothly tracked, so smooth tracking is possible, accurate tracking is possible, but the question is if it is globally accurate or if it's just like... In a small local area. If the position of the controller in relation to the headset is actually truly accurate, we don't know that. But based on some observations, like clearly VR works as a medium, so clearly there are tech things how to make this work. And of course there are other solutions used in other research projects. So I think that this is technically a solved problem, but I wouldn't lean too much on it because I'm not giving you a solution here, right? So I wouldn't say this is a perfectly solved problem, you don't need to worry. But at the same time I would say this is probably a solved problem. There are ways to figure this out. We just chose the path of least resistance for testing purposes and the path that is good enough to allow us to test this and the viability without having to pay for very expensive systems or many multi-camera setups and so on. So that's where I would go to this. For the pen tracking, we do not use the IMU data, and I would probably mention that again. But I would mention that in relation to the VR, because the VR does that and it clearly is highly superior in terms of like the accuracy and stability of the controller tracking. Also, when we are talking about VR, VR is one of the future extensions, possible extensions, because we are talking about interfaces, and one of the interfaces is clearly the one that we have implanted, but there are multiple other ones. I would say multiple other possible interfaces, and I would say a big one would be... Big one would be replacing pen tracking by hand tracking, because hands are easy to track and easy to use. And if we improve our sensing, like scene sensing enough, then we don't need accurate pen intent or accurate like user intent. We just need like semi-accurate user intent. Of course, for specific things like very accurate screw placement, if we just highly rely on the pen, then we would need a pen. But again, that's a big advantage of our system, because we can use either, right? It's a flexibility and we can always say we can use anything. It's so flexible, so nothing matters. That's a very easy thing to say, but it's not true, because still it really will define the use cases. The use cases will depend on some accuracy, right? These cases can say we require 6D input, and we can provide a 6D input from a hand or from a pen, but if the use case requires the pen accuracy, there's no way to specify that right now. So it may not work properly. That's more like, well, I guess it works with a pen, and I guess we can try with a hand. We'll see how it goes. It could, but it doesn't have to. It would still require some tuning. It's not a perfect system, is what I mean to say. But yes, one of the future possible extensions would be to try this with hand tracking and try to figure out how it would work, because honestly, the pen is great, but I think that with hand tracking it would be even cooler. There are multiple issues with that, of course, because with hand tracking, you would have to define when you want to enter the position, right? That's something we have talked about in the analysis, where how would you say that you want to click? How would you say, I want this point with the hand tracking, right? You can stop your hand, and by that way define the point, but then what if you just rest your hand somewhere for a little bit, then you just define the point? It's more complex. You could show your other hand and like click your... thumb and indexing are together or whatever for defining the point. But then, like, it's hard, it's not natural. There are issues with this. The holy grail, as we are talking about, the holy grail of all of this, again, this is mentioned in, I think, the future work, would be a combination of hand tracking or potentially the pen tracking and voice. Because if you had a natural language capable use case, so like some kind of integration of use cases with natural language detection and pose detection, then you could truly use your hands. You could say, start your world here and enter your world here. Or you could say vice versa. You could say, I want to define the end here and then you could say after a while, and define the start here. And the system would understand, right? Because it would know where your hand was in all of these positions. It could sample where your hand was. It could sample it on the scene. It could sample the direction, all of these things. And it could infer a lot of these things. And that would be done. I'm not sure how it would... The AI would have to, like, say what the user wants to define and when. So, like, it would need to say, when in the recorded sequence of the hand tracking does the user want to sample it. There is multiple things about this. And I think it would be a really interesting thesis. But I haven't done that. And I think it's a really great thing to mention as a future extension of my thesis. Because that could truly be a great extension. Another extension would be, like we talked about, essentially just an experiment to see how this actually performs and how it actually compares. That's one other future work. Extensions. And another ones are the integration with the Casio CoBot teach pendant, which one would be to do the one-off programming on the Casio command level, so you would create a command and then it would show a custom UI where you would select my command and like click all the things, and then you would start a Casio program which would then call my program, which would then call the robot directly. This kind of integration. And then another custom integration that would allow you to define the poses inside of the Casio CoBot teach pendant with my pen. This would also be practical. It's less practical, but like if you buy a Casio CoBot and you use my system, and then you need to, you know, program something inside of the Casio CoBot, so you, let's say, you usually work in my system, but then you somehow need to use the robot, the Casio programming robot and the Casio robot programming language, then you can define the pose simply using my system. And next thing is actually the VR, because we are talking about the hand tracking and so on and voice input, but you could also use the VR or AR glasses integration, which I think the easiest way to try this would be with the MetaQuest 3, where you would, because it has like pass-through and cameras and hand tracking and all of these things. So you could try to use this headset, either with controllers or with the hand tracking, for integration with my system. And I think that would also be a really interesting use case. Also, because that would be ideal if you also managed to combine all of this and voice together, because you could get real-time like rendering of the Paths and so on. But like, this is very advanced stuff. This is much more advanced than what I had. And I think that if you were building something like a MetaQuest 3 plus hand tracking plus scene detection plus voice detection and combining all of this into use cases, I would do this not on top of my system, but I would do this as a standalone demo, which is highly specialized, just one simple demo, one single demo, one simple demo, well, simple and single, just for this, just to show how it works and the use case. Because this would be very, very hard to do generally. It is possible, but it would be much harder, I think, than my system. But this is just me talking. I don't know if you want to write all of this. But we should write about the future extensions, but not like all of this detail, probably. Also, one small note, you said in your 6.3 that it's threats to validity. I wouldn't say it's threats to validity because it doesn't make it invalid. None of the stuff that we talked about makes it invalid. It just makes it harder to commercialize. But feel free to use whatever you think is right. Continuing, you are talking about scene understanding is deliberately narrow. Yes, I would, yeah, I would use this in discussion. It is true, it is a true limitation. It is highly narrow. It uses ARUCO-based localization, which inherently, the issue is that you usually scan this from the top because you mount the camera on the robot and you put the robot on top of the scene, so it sees everything, right? So you put the robot arm in a way that the camera is looking from the top down onto the table, which is great for your example use case because the camera sees everything, mostly. But it is kind of bad because the camera then sees the boxes from the top and that means it sees the ARUCO codes from the top, which is fine, except that if you watch ARUCO code from the top, you get some kind of singularities, first issue. And second issue is that the Z sucks, right? With ARUCO codes, the Z depth sucks, which means that your depth in terms of like the distance to the table kind of isn't great. There are ways to fix it. For example, you could like, if you know exactly where the table is, you could like move the boxes so they are at the table. And you could even calibrate this. You could, you know, like go to multiple different distances and then calibrate it somehow. But I think it's, it's an implementation level detail, but it is truly limited. And like you say, it also uses single-shot detection. I don't think the confidence and uncertainty information should be mentioned. I don't think that's a big deal. But the single-shot detection is a big deal. The ARUCO code is a big deal. And the fact that it is box-based is a huge deal because it can only detect boxes. That's a very limited example. It is... one of the, if not the most limiting part of my system, because that's completely useless. If you wanted to use my system in a real production environment, this is the part that you would 100% have to replace. This is the first part that you would replace. Because the other parts, I don't know if they are needed to replace, like for welding, I think that you could actually use them. But you would need to replace this specific part 100%. And of course, everything that depends on it, and the use cases do depend on the data from the scene detection 3D boxes. So, of course, you would need to rewrite them too. But I mean, this is meant as a demo. This is meant as a proof of concept. So it did prove the concept, like we talked about. You're right, exactly, robot execution orchestration, no collision checking. No simulation, also true. When you are talking about the UI side. It's more like an implementation limitation. Like if you have a lot of bugs, let's say, inside of the code, they don't really affect behavior much, but they are there. I think UI is weird because UI does affect the usability, but it doesn't affect the idea of my system. The idea of my system is valid. The big issues that we found that we don't know if they will limit the system or not is, for example, the tracking. That is a big issue, right? Because if you cannot figure out the tracking and mainly the scene detection, then the system is useless. Well, I wouldn't say it's that exactly, but it's much less useful. So the camera input and the scene understanding, I would say the biggest limitation in my system is truly the scene understanding. That's why it's so simple in my example, because it's the biggest limitation for the real use case. The UI is a limitation, but the UI is more like, if you use my demo, then you will notice the UI is not ideal maybe, but I think it's still pretty good, so I would not push it down as like a limitation or a fragility. It's like, okay, that's how the UI is. I think the bigger issue than the UI is actually the system, because the UI can be re-implemented, but if there is bugs inside of the core, then those affect the actual use much more. I'm not saying that you need to talk about those either. I'm just saying that the UI isn't exactly like a big huge issue. I think the issue would be mentioned alongside the other code issues if you will talk about those, but it's not a huge issue for the validity of my proof of concept. I think that saying that it is a prototype or a production interface and there are limitations alongside with it is true, but it's not a big deal. Your sentence saying this conditionality is especially visible in the difference between the two main use cases. I think that that is invalid. That's highly invalid in terms of limitations because this is not a limitation, this is a specific choice of my programming. This shows the flexibility of my system. And also, it's a limitation because due to this, in fact, instead of this, you should actually be saying stuff like the pick and place, the reason, well, the reason for the dynamic program was something like pick and place, where if you want, we can actually adjust in real time, for example, if you program it one way, then you can adjust it at runtime, which is useful. That is something that could be used. Again, we are just thinking without any actual real use case, but for example, for the pick and place, that is useful, right? But it also limited us that now we cannot do a robot program. Oh, sorry. Yeah, we cannot export into a robot program. And that is a real limitation. That is something that is a result, and that is a limitation, and that is something worth discussing and worth mentioning. We just cannot do this. Right now, that is. Of course, you can mention we cannot do this, but there is a way to implement it. My system does allow you to extend this. You can change the interface and extend this. Of course, changing the interface means that you might have to change everything that uses that interface. And yes, that could essentially be  talked or taken as a big implementation change, but I don't think it's that big of a deal. I think that it's not, it's a much smaller deal than if you have one big binary blob, where you change one thing and suddenly you have to change 1,000 different places. This is, you change the interface and then you have to change everything that uses that interface, but due to the interface design, due to the separation of concerns, this is much simpler because this is truly separate. All of the modules are separate, so I think that it's much easier to do something like this and to mention that we can do something like this. but particularly, you say again, this conditionality is especially visible in the difference between the two main use cases. That is completely invalid, because those are on purpose this way. Weld programs depend on the scene staying unchanged after confirmation, because that's on a point. That's by design. One shows the one approach, the second shows the other approach. Welding would be hard, because if you have to, like, find where the items moved, then that's obviously much harder, right? And much less, it would lead to potentially much bigger issues for the welder, because the welder, like, let's say he bumps the stuff, it moves, and the program adjusts, but suddenly, maybe, he bumps it, and it moves in a weird place, and now it's not aligned as it was supposed to be, and the welder is like, OK, well, I guess now it welded completely wrongly. Great, right? Of course, in my example, it will weld anyways, but in a different place than the new position, so maybe that's even worse, but also it's easier to notice. But mainly in welding, you usually tie stuff down, like with clamps and so on, and then you do the weld. So it doesn't matter that the scene has to remain unchanged. Whereas in pick and place, the usual use case is that you find the object in the scene and then you pick it and place it somewhere else, which exactly requires the dynamic execution and the dynamic scene detection. So these are not disadvantages or limitations. These are true, these literally show the flexibility and capability of the system. These are positives, not negatives. But you can, if you think that those can be taken as negatives, you can also mention them in a negative way, especially the part about the serialization that you cannot export this into a robot program due to this exact issue, but you could extend the system to be able to do that. And you can discuss the extension, actually, you can discuss the extension in the future work. We can have like three-way, right? You can have different, you can have in positives, you can say that it allows this flexibility. In the negatives, you can say, well, this flexibility unfortunately brings us the issue that we cannot export. And in future work, you can say, we can add the capability to the export into the supported commands, for example, for the welding, we can add it, for the pick and place, we cannot add it, or we will have to figure out a different way to add it. And this, this is a really clean, nice three-way split that guides the reader through the exact sections. It's beautiful, and I would encourage you to use this for other things too, but it's harder to apply it to other things. This is a really clean example. Yes, the evidence is qualitative and workflow-oriented rather than benchmark-based. That's exactly what I was talking about, that we don't have benchmarks. We don't have real hard evidence. We only have like, well, qualitative demos, ideas. But those make sense. And based on my testing, it is working. But of course, that is just word of mouth, and word of mouth, you know, has some value, but not much value, potentially. But, and then again, I'm the author, and I say it works. So... You know, I'm not saying you have to use it, I'm just saying this is an interesting area to look at. I don't have the experiments, so I'm giving you the next best things. I'm giving you what I see about the system, both positives and negatives, and I try to stay objective. This is something that actually, I think, would belong into the, like, intro, where we would say this chapter focuses on qualitative work-oriented ideas. We would say something like, we don't have experiments, we say, like, how we feel about it, but in a nice way, essentially, because what I'm trying to tell you objectively how I see the system, right? I'm trying to tell you the positives, the negatives, the future work, all of these things, and cover it objectively. I cannot give you exact numbers. I don't have them, but I can tell you what I believe of the system and what I think the issues are and what I think the good things are, because that's the idea. But we don't have hard evidence, and I think it's fair to mention that. I can always delete it if I don't like it in your text. Oh, sorry, this is a mention for you. Yes, yes, Chapter 6 should avoid claims of production readiness and broad industry generality and superiority. You are completely right. That is true, sorry. I thought that this is meant as part of the text. It shouldn't be. But we should mention it, maybe... We don't have to mention this, but if you think it fits in the intro, we can mention that there are no experiments, but there are this. Maybe let's not mention it. We can mention experiments as a future work, because we can say something like, we haven't experimented, we haven't performed real quantitative experiments on this, so we... Would do that as a part of the future or something like that. Just mention it there, I think. That would be like pretty clean. Exactly like you say in the guardrails, chapter 6 shouldn't be experimental benchmark chapter, because there are no benchmarks. This is mostly my ideas trying to be as objective as possible, and all of my info should be in there, but, well, not everything, because some of the stuff is just information for you, but a lot of this should be in there. And a lot of the stuff that you said is good because you have the context, what the thesis was about, but it's not exactly what should be in there. But I told you this over the entire message, essentially. Do not write anything else into the thesis previously. You said something, do not add a note only bug lists unless you write them into the thesis. Do not write something into the previous parts of the thesis. I think we should keep the previous part as is and we just should just write these two final chapters. I'm not sure what you mean by the main contribution hierarchy table. Just keep to my notes. I think that's better. Your ideas might be good. I'm just not seeing the vision yet. So I have the vision in my ideas that I try to convey through you to you through my words, but maybe yours is better. We'll see. You decide, but you have all the info from me, which I think that should be represented there.




Yes, in the conclusion, we should summarize what we did, essentially. A conclusion is kind of like what we did, what we achieved, you know. It doesn't have to be like this masterpiece. It should be quite short and sweet. But this is just general talking. I haven't read your text yet. I will read it now. I really like your first paragraph in the draft prose. That's really clean. I think I would still adjust it slightly to fit my style, textual style better, but it is a really clean way to essentially say what we did. I would just double check it with the text. But yeah, I think that's exactly what we did. The second part is nice. Rather than producing only a single pen-based prototype, it's true. One of the goals was to have the modular use cases to allow multiple use cases, to allow modularity of use cases. That was one of the goals. So there is some modularity explicitly in the request, but not the scene acquisition, not the intent or spatial intent acquisition. Those were not specified. I don't love that you are saying single pen-based prototype, because we didn't actually mention that in the introduction, the pen-based, I mean. Introduction didn't mention pens. But it's fine-ish. I would maybe adjust it to be more generic. You are completely correct on the rest, though, that we can be established a shared runtime. That's really nice, really clean. I love this, by the way, but just be slightly careful about the wording. This wording is fine. I'm just saying, in general, be careful about over-promising, but I think this is perfect from the conclusion, actually. Perfect level of, like, I'm proud of myself saying. Maybe, I know that this is mainly notes for you or draft notes for me, but this is still really kind of like AI style a little bit. I would simplify the language slightly, slightly. I think this is mostly fine, but it reads kind of like a summary, but it should be a summary, so I guess it's fine. But like the scene adaptive, for example, scene adaptive execution. I don't think we used scene adaptive previously in the text, so I would like to avoid reintroducing some kind of vocabulary. I would like to keep it simple. Either define it. Huh. Well, you were right, we actually did use scene adaptive. But we used it once, so I'm not sure if you want to use it a lot. but to be fair, we did use it, so I guess you can use it. Just be careful of not introducing new vocabulary. And also, conclusion, discussion and conclusion, they shouldn't be completely fine set alone, but they should be readable with minimal context. Or let me rephrase, this should be written in a way where if you read the introduction and the conclusion, let's say, or introduction and the discussion, you should not be completely lost. And the reason why I'm saying this is within the framework, the two main demonstrations show complementary strengths. That's great. Oh, sorry, I got lost. Yes, the pick and place demonstrates scene adaptive execution inside the current box-based model. Scene adaptive execution, I think I can imagine what it is, although I'm a little confused what does scene adaptive execution mean. And I have no idea what box-based model is. I know because I have written the thesis, but me as a reader who didn't read the thesis, I have no idea what box-based model is. So, you know, just maybe improve this so that it's much more understandable by a reader so that the reader who didn't read the thesis isn't completely lost. They can be a little lost, I mean, they are supposed to read it, but they shouldn't be completely lost. Also, this sounds a little bit like a sales pitch, so maybe dial down a little on the sales pitch. I completely love the within that framework, the two main domain demonstrations show complementary strengths. That is great. But the rest reads like a sales pitch with a lot of specific wording, which is like sales wording. It sounds nice, but it doesn't say much. Even for me, as a reader or as someone who wrote this, I'm reading like, yeah, but like, what do you mean complementary strengths? What is scene adaptive execution? What is a box-based model? What is a trajectory-centric spatial authoring? What do you mean? How is it complementary? What does it actually do? Like, why is it a stronger fit? You keep, you say a lot of things. You say one thing, show complementary strengths, and then you say like kind of random words, especially for someone who doesn't know what we're talking about. But even for me, I don't see how this means complementary strengths. So that one, be careful about and make sure to write it properly. Exactly. Your last sentence, particularly the current system remains a qualitative proof of concept rather than a validated industrial programming platform. That's exactly what I talked about previously in the message. You are completely right. Yes, that is exactly it. It's a proof of concept rather than an industrial programming platform. And that's how it should be reviewed. And this should be concretely mentioned in, I think, both the discussion and in the conclusion, but particularly, well, I guess particularly in the conclusion. But it is very important to actually clearly mention this. But like, nicely, so it fits the text, not out of context. And the spatial authoring is viable for selected task-oriented workflows. Again, this kind of ties into the discussion that I talked about, that for the... Single use kind of definition, it is perfect, and that's a real, I would say, potential use case of cooperative robots worth exploring. I have not explored it, yet again, another idea for future work for you is actually exploring what kind of systems this could be used in. Because this would truly allow you to use the Cobot as a true assistant next to you. And of course, if we even implemented the voice, then with the voice it would be even better, but it would essentially be like the robots in the Iron Man, Tony Stark's house, right? Like he talks to them and stuff, but those are more general, those are not task specific, but this would be like, you would say, I don't know, come here, unscrew these four screws. And the robot would just go and start unscrewing it. Or it would confirm with you, it would like, I don't know, show you in AR, like, do you mean these four? And it would say, yeah, go ahead. And it would just do it. Something like that, you know? This specific task-specific thing, which could, of course, then be expanded into more general use case, but first you would need to be able to use it for the task-specific things, which I don't think we are doing currently with the cooperative robots. I don't know if it's useful for that, and again, that's something that we could be exploring for the future, so again, that's a future work idea. Just now that I'm telling you all of this, maybe we don't need to really reference the outline v2, because a lot of the stuff that I'm telling you, I think is a better fit there. Maybe look into it and check if there is any more ideas, but mainly focus on the stuff that I'm telling you now, because I don't want to reintroduce more information. I don't think that the outline v2 is bad. I think it is good too, but the issue is that you don't have the relevant information. I'm giving you all the relevant information now, but if you look into the outline, you will not have the relevant information for some of the things, and you will not be able to talk about them well. So if there is something that you think is great and you can talk about from the information you see from the thesis and from me, go ahead. And if you think it's a good fit. But let's avoid just putting there more information from the outline V2 just to have a longer text. I don't want a long text. I want a text that covers well what we built, what are its uses, what are its weaknesses, what is the future work, what is the conclusion. I don't want to write text for the sake of writing text. The one thing I didn't really understand in your last sentence is you say, liable for selected task-oriented workflows when supported by explicit module boundaries. I don't know what you mean by explicit module boundaries or when supported by them. I don't know why it needs to be supported by those. So that is one thing I don't understand, so maybe double-check that too or explain it better, you know, like I say, plain words. Well, maintain the style. That's what I mean. Maintain the style of the previous. Maybe actually, yeah, that's a good idea. You should probably launch some style workers, well, one or two style workers for parts of the previous chapters, and you will tell them, like, create some kind of extract parts of the text to show the style. We don't want too much, because if you load, like, 100,000 words, it's gonna be a lot of tokens, right? But you do want some style reference to have in your summary folder. And also in your summary folder for all the new workers, prepend, actually, no, create a summary underscore two folder, like create a secondary folder. Do not delete anything, but create a secondary folder. For the future work, I think what I talked about is better, because what you're saying is the sensing side. That's, it is future work, but I think it's a weak future work. I would say again, more high-level future work, stuff like the hand tracking, stuff like the VR, AR, stuff like the voice, maybe integration with the Casso Cobot, with the teach pendant, and whatever else I said. Those things are interesting. Things like saying, well, we could try a better camera. That's, yeah, that's future work, but like you could also say, maybe we should try a better algorithm here. Like there's thousands such things. But the IMU fusion, that's a good one, yep. Timestamp alignment, no. Cross-platform acquisition backend. Yeah, I think you should maybe mention this in the limitations because the advantage, or like, we should mention in the advantages that it is designed to be cross-platform, but we should mention in the limitations that it is actually not working on Linux, not because it's not cross-platform, but because the BLE library behaves differently on Linux, and because, but maybe verify this. And secondarily, because we don't have camera acquisition workflow on Linux. We don't have a camera module for Linux. So that's a limitation. It is multi-platform, great, but it doesn't actually work multi-platform because the modules don't work multi-platform, which is bad. And then future work can again be like implement this. But it's a smaller thing again. It's not like a big deal. Like this can be done with an agent in like four hours, maybe less. Four hours with testing, I think. Well, if you're fast. But again, I prefer more high-level things. This is a limitation, but I wouldn't really put it like a big future work thing. Because future work is interesting future work. It's like something, for me, future work, because there is a lot of bugs in the code, right? So you could say for each of the bugs, you could say this is a future work ticket. But for me, future work is, I, let's say I'm reading this thesis and I read the future work, and I want to reach that and think, okay, this would be a great topic for my thesis. I'm gonna work on that. See, that's something which I think would be a great future work example. I don't want to do future work like, we should add Linux support, because that sounds too basic. Yes, future work, we should mention the boxes, though. Although they are already mentioned in the limitations. But I'm partial on this. Think about it. I think the boxes are, again, a technical issue, more than like a future work issue, because it's not interesting as a research project. Yes, it's a limitation, and it's a limitation that would need to be fixed for a commercial application. I think that the future work should stay academic, not commercial. We could mention things that would need to be finished for the commercial use case, but I feel like we are already mentioning that in the negatives. Whereas here, I would like to mention stuff that could actually be improved, stuff that wasn't exactly mentioned in the negatives, stuff like that could be built. It's an interesting extension of the system that we haven't explored, and I think it would be nice to explore it. And also the experiments, because the experiments, again, the experiments are academic. They are proving or disproving the usability of the system. That's a great academic result. Again, academic good, commercial not so good. The boxes are... a real limitation, but it's not really, it is also an academic approach, because you could say, like, is there even a way to improve or to do scene detection on the level that is required by this project? That's a real, fair research project. And I generally don't know, maybe there is, maybe there isn't. So I guess we could mention them, but we would have to, like, form it more in terms of the academic slash research project. I don't want to, I don't want this part to explicitly say, so these are the topics you could pick as your next thesis or as your next research project, but I think we should cover the topics that would be interesting for someone. We should cover them in the thesis style, we should cover them to continue with the style we used previously, just essentially ideas we had, where we could work on that, where we would like to work on that, which are interesting to work on, and interesting for us and academically, or at least one of those. But we shouldn't specifically say, these are the academically interesting future topics. Not that. But that's the filter we should use, kind of. Okay, maybe you are free to, you can add some kind of like technical future work and then the actual future work. The actual future work, I still want there to be a section which will cover these academic future works, but you are correct that it would be nice to mention like we would like to improve the pen tracking partially from the IMU, mainly the IMU and maybe improve the Aruco code detection or whatever, then improve the scene detection, do it more generally. Then the execution layer, particularly the tool control abstraction that needs to be finished somehow. Then motion validation and collision checking or collision avoidance, then simulation and all these things could be mentioned. But again, there could be also mentioned the VR AR hand tracking, stuff like this, that would be interesting. I'm kind of like blabbing around, you know, but I think you know what I mean to put here. And if you do put these technical issues here, I think you should put them separately from the actual interesting extensions. Because this is, what I want to avoid is I want to avoid reiterating exactly the negatives. I think the negatives should be mentioned. And maybe we can like do like a catch all thing where you could say in the future work, we could improve, like, let's say one or two paragraphs where you could say we could improve the future or the negatives by doing X, Y, Z and so on. And then we would say, we would say this exactly like we're talking about here. You would say like, we would improve the pen tracking by... Using maybe better codes or better code structure or maybe a different type of tracking and using or integrating the IMU, we could improve the scene detection. We could explore improving the scene detection, and I think that's more of a research question. We could improve the execution by doing collision checking, motion validation, and optionally like collision planning or collision avoidance planning, you could add simulation. And all of these things could be mentioned. And then actually go through the actual future steps that we could mention. I think that's a good idea. And that's actually what you, I guess that's exactly what you say in the seven three longer term directions. But the longer term directions, I think that's the main output for me for the future work. By the way, we don't want this whole chapter to explode into 10 pages, but we do want to mention these things. Yeah, yeah, exactly like you say, the six DOF inputs such as eye tracking and or VR AR controllers. I think you did read the outline, maybe. Yes, speech again. I talked about it a lot. That is a great idea. Yes, evaluation phase, user study, more qualitative workflow assessment. We would want a user study on how useful it is actually, and you would maybe want like to compare the result. Ideally, what I wanted to do is also to measure how accurate the pen is, which I think would be a great pen and also the scene detection is, because those right now we don't know. We do know we are mostly stable-ish. They're not nearly as good as VR controllers, but well, considering the hardware limitations I had and time and cost and so on, I think they are working well, well enough, anyways. But I don't know how they are globally accurate. That's the big issue. And it's kind of hard to measure this, so I think that this would warrant a study. But I don't know if we should mention it in the longer-term directions. We should mention the study, a formal user study, for the workflow assessment, but I don't know if we should also want to mention to study the precision. I think that's more of a shorter term, more specific thing. But I guess we can mention it in the shorter term part. But again, this is up to you. Like, maybe you, maybe we can split it into like two longer-ish sections, like we would add the conclusion start, then like the near-term future work and the long-term directions. That's actually a really nice split. And the near-term future work can then cover all of the things that we mentioned. I just want to avoid repeating ourselves with the negatives that we already mentioned all of these things in. But like you say, the stronger evaluation phase and note is great, yes. That's exactly what we would want. The current prototype should be extended with more complex use cases. That's a great point, and that's actually something that I was talking about, where it, it's not, because what you're saying is very abstract. It should be extended. That doesn't mean anything. I think we have researched something. We have found out that this could be really useful for something like welding. And I think that we should try to explore this more. Explore this more in depth, where what are the actual uses, use cases, where we could use this system of programming, this idea of programming. To combine the human, to actually make the human-robot interaction much better, to actually take advantage of the human-robot interaction. I was talking about this already, but find more examples like this and figure out if they are, figure out more concretely if that's something that the users would actually want to use. Because this is potentially a real product. I'm not saying that you should focus on this as a real product, but I'm saying this could be actually a real product. This could be something that could be actually useful to some people. So I think that this is an interesting discussion and it should be covered from this angle, in terms of the longer-term directions. And yes, I agree with your guardrails. Conclusion should be shorter than chapter 6. Chapter 6 should be the longer discussion and then conclusion should be shorter. But don't specifically just cut it short. It's bad to write long and then cut it too short. It's better to just, well, write shorter from the beginning, but if not possible, then keep it a little bit longer. It's fine as long as it doesn't grow up into enormous proportions. Exactly, you're correct. I don't know how you figured this out because it's kind of fun reading all of your notes here because that's exactly what I told you and then I read it 10 minutes later and you actually did this exactly. You designed, you know, keep the near-term engineering roadmap separate from the longer-term. That's exactly what I thought of and clearly you already knew that, so good job. Yes, you're correct. Yeah. I agree with your guard trails. Those are good guard trails.